docs/contributing.rst, before:

Contributing
=======================

Here are a couple of details regarding the development of this library. Contributions are more than welcome!

Please see :ref:`sec-setup-developers` on how to set up the library for development.

- :ref:`sec-dev-bumpversion` to tag a new release
- :ref:`sec-dev-pypi`

.. _sec-dev-bumpversion:

Using bumpversion
-----------------------------

bumpversion_ allows to update the library version consistently over all files. Please do not change the version manually, but use the following steps instead after a pull request has been merged into the ``main`` branch. Depending on the amount of changes, choose accordingly from:

- ``patch`` = ``+0.0.1``
- ``minor`` = ``+0.1.0``
- ``major`` = ``+1.0.0``

Execute the following commands:

::

    pip install --upgrade bumpversion
    git checkout main
    git pull
    bumpversion patch # adjust accordingly
    git push origin main --tags

The files in which the versions are updated as well as the current version can be found in the `.bumpversion.cfg`_. You need appropriate rights for the repository to be able to push the tag.

.. _sec-dev-pypi:

Uploading to PyPI
-----------------

Once a new version has been tagged, the package should be uploaded to the Python Package Index (PyPI_).
For the markdown formatting to work, ``twine>=1.11.0`` is required.
Execute the following commands to create a source distribution and upload it:

::

    pip install -U wheel
    python setup.py sdist bdist_wheel
    pip install -U twine
    twine upload --repository-url https://test.pypi.org/legacy/ dist/*

This uploads to the `PyPI test server`_. Mind that you need to have an account for both the test and the production servers.

Install the package for testing:

::

    pip install --index-url https://test.pypi.org/simple/ hepdata_lib

If everything is fine, upload to the production server:

::

    twine upload dist/*

You should then find the new version at `this location`_. You need to be a maintainer of the project for this to work. For more details please see the `python packaging documentation`_.


.. _bumpversion: https://github.com/peritus/bumpversion
.. _.bumpversion.cfg: https://github.com/HEPData/hepdata_lib/blob/main/.bumpversion.cfg
.. _PyPI: https://pypi.org
.. _PyPI test server: https://test.pypi.org/project/hepdata_lib/
.. _this location: https://pypi.org/project/hepdata_lib/
.. _python packaging documentation: https://packaging.python.org/tutorials/packaging-projects/

Commit message:

Update release creation docs (#269)
* Update release creation docs

* Consolidate release notes

* Update copyright year

docs/contributing.rst, after:

Contributing
=======================

Here are a couple of details regarding the development of this library. Contributions are more than welcome!

Please see :ref:`sec-setup-developers` on how to set up the library for development.

- :ref:`sec-dev-bumpversion` to tag a new release
- :ref:`sec-dev-pypi`

.. _sec-dev-bumpversion:

Using bumpversion
-----------------------------

bumpversion_ allows to update the library version consistently over all files. Please do not change the version manually, but use the following steps instead after a pull request has been merged into the ``main`` branch. Depending on the amount of changes, choose accordingly from:

- ``patch`` = ``+0.0.1``
- ``minor`` = ``+0.1.0``
- ``major`` = ``+1.0.0``

Execute the following commands:

::

    pip install --upgrade bumpversion
    git checkout main
    git pull
    bumpversion patch # adjust accordingly
    git push origin main --tags

The files in which the versions are updated as well as the current version can be found in the `.bumpversion.cfg`_. You need appropriate rights for the repository to be able to push the tag.

.. _sec-dev-pypi:

Creating a new release
---------------------------

Once a new version has been tagged, a new release has to be created on GitHub.
Go to `Releases`_ and click on "Draft a new release".
Choose the tag you just created, auto-generate release notes, and click "Publish release".
The package will then be automatically uploaded to the Python Package Index (PyPI_) at `this location`_
and a new container image will be built and tagged.

After making a new release available on `PyPI`_, a `JIRA`_ issue (`example`_) should be opened to request that
``hepdata_lib`` is upgraded in future `LCG Releases`_ used by `SWAN`_.

.. _bumpversion: https://github.com/peritus/bumpversion
.. _.bumpversion.cfg: https://github.com/HEPData/hepdata_lib/blob/main/.bumpversion.cfg
.. _Releases: https://github.com/HEPData/hepdata_lib/releases
.. _PyPI: https://pypi.org
.. _this location: https://pypi.org/project/hepdata_lib/
.. _JIRA: https://its.cern.ch/jira/projects/SPI/
.. _example: https://its.cern.ch/jira/browse/SPI-2507
.. _LCG Releases: https://lcginfo.cern.ch/pkg/hepdata_lib/
.. _SWAN: http://swan.cern.ch/
